.TH odbcinst 1 "Sat 09 Jan 2021" "version 2.3.12" "unixODBC manual pages"

.SH NAME
odbcinst - A unixODBC utility for managing configuration files

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B odbcinst
.I ACTION OBJECT OPTIONS

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBodbcinst\fR is a command-line utility allowing users who develop install scripts or
packages for ODBC drivers to easily create or remove entries in odbc.ini and odbcinst.ini.

The utility is part of the odbcinst component of unixODBC and complements the
shared library of the same name (libodbcinst).

.SH OPTIONS

.SS ACTIONS

.IP \-i
Install a new \fIOBJECT\fR (by adding a section to a configuration file).

.IP \-u
Uninstall an existing \fIOBJECT\fR (by removing a section from a configuration file).

.IP \-q
Query ODBC configuration files and print available options for the specified \fIOBJECT\fR.

.IP \-j
Print the current configuration of unixODBC, including paths to configuration files.

.IP \-c
Call SQLCreateDataSource.

.IP \-m
Call SQLManageDataSources.

.IP \-\-version
Display the program version.

.SS OBJECTS

.IP \-d
The specified \fIACTION\fR affects a driver (and thus the odbcinst.ini configuration file).

.IP \-s
The specified \fIACTION\fR affects a data source (and thus the user or system odbc.ini
configuration file).

.SS OPTIONS

.IP "\-f \fIFILE\fR"
\fIFILE\fR is a template describing the configuration of the installed
\fIOBJECT\fR (only valid with the -i \fIACTION\fR).

.IP \-r
Act in the same way as for the \-f \fIOPTION\fR, but take standard input as the
template file.

.IP "\-n \fINAME\fR"
Specifies the \fINAME\fR of the \fIOBJECT\fR.

.IP \-v
Disable all information, warning and error messages.

.IP \-l
The specified data source is system-wide. This option is only valid when used
with the \-s \fIOBJECT\fR.

.IP \-h
The specified data source is user-specific. This option is only valid when used
with the \-s \fIOBJECT\fR.

.SH "RETURN VALUES"
odbcinst returns zero on success and a non-zero value on failure.

.SH FILES
.I /etc/odbcinst.ini
.RS
Configuration file containing all database driver definitions. See
.BR odbcinst.ini (5)
for more information.
.RE

.I /etc/odbc.ini
.RS
Configuration file containing system-wide Data Source Name (DSN)
definitions. See
.BR odbc.ini (5)
for more information.
.RE

.I $HOME/.odbc.ini
.RS
Configuration file containing user-specific Data Source Name (DSN)
definitions. See
.BR odbc.ini (5)
for more information.
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR odbcinst.ini (5),
.BR odbc.ini (5)

.SH AUTHORS
The authors of unixODBC are Peter Harvey <\fIpharvey@codebydesign.com\fR> and
Nick Gorham <\fInick@lurcher.org\fR>.

For a full list of contributors, refer to the \fIAUTHORS\fR file.

.SH COPYRIGHT
unixODBC is licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License. For details
about the license, see the \fICOPYING\fR file.
