.TH odbc_config 1 "Thu 07 Jan 2021" "version 2.3.11" "unixODBC manual pages"

.SH NAME
odbc_config - Generates compiler information intended for use when developing a unixODBC client

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY odbc_config
.OP \-\-prefix
.OP \-\-exec-prefix
.OP \-\-include-prefix
.OP \-\-lib-prefix
.OP \-\-bin-prefix
.OP \-\-version
.OP \-\-libs
.OP \-\-static-libs
.OP \-\-libtool-libs
.OP \-\-cflags
.OP \-\-odbcversion
.OP \-\-odbcini
.OP \-\-odbcinstini
.OP \-\-header
.OP \-\-ulen
.YS

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBodbc_config\fR provides information about how unixODBC was compiled for your
system and architecture. The information generated is useful for building unixODBC
clients and similar programs.

.SH OPTIONS
.B
.IP \-\-prefix
Prefix for architecture-independent files.

.B
.IP \-\-exec-prefix
Prefix for architecture-dependent files.

.B
.IP \-\-include-prefix
Directory containing C header files for unixODBC.

.B
.IP \-\-lib-prefix
Directory containing unixODBC shared libraries.

.B
.IP \-\-bin-prefix
Directory containing unixODBC utilities.

.B
.IP \-\-version
Current version of unixODBC.

.B
.IP \-\-libs
Compiler flags for linking dynamic libraries.

.B
.IP \-\-static-libs
Absolute file name of the unixODBC static library (libodbc.a).

.B
.IP \-\-libtool-libs
Absolute file name of the unixODBC libtool library (libodbc.la).

.B
.IP \-\-cflags
Outputs compiler flags to find header files, as well as critical compiler
flags and defines used when compiling the libodbc library.

.B
.IP \-\-odbcversion
Version of the ODBC specification used by unixODBC.

.B
.IP \-\-odbcini
Absolute file name of the system-wide DSN configuration file \fIodbc.ini\fR.

.B
.IP \-\-odbcinstini
Absolute file name of the unixODBC driver configuration file \fIodbcinst.ini\fR.

.B
.IP \-\-header
Definitions of C preprocessor constants used by unixODBC. Generated output can
be piped into a C header file.

.B
.IP \-\-ulen
Compiler flag that defines \fISIZEOF_SQLULEN\fR.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR unixODBC (7),
.BR odbcinst.ini (5),
.BR odbc.ini (5)

"The \fIunixODBC\fB Administrator Manual (HTML)\fR"

.SH AUTHORS
The authors of unixODBC are Peter Harvey <\fIpharvey@codebydesign.com\fR> and
Nick Gorham <\fInick@lurcher.org\fR>.

For a full list of contributors, refer to the \fIAUTHORS\fR file.

.SH COPYRIGHT
unixODBC is licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License. For details
about the license, see the \fICOPYING\fR file.
