.TH odbcinst.ini 5 "Tue 12 Jan 2021" "version 2.3.11" "unixODBC manual pages"

.SH NAME
/etc/odbcinst.ini - unixODBC driver configuration file

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fB/etc/odbcinst.ini\fR is a configuration file for unixODBC drivers.

The file can be updated by using the \fB odbcinst\fR utility (recommended)
or edited by hand.

.SH FILE FORMAT
The general .ini file format is:

.RS
.nf
.BI [ SectionName1 ]
.IB key1 " = " value1
.IB key2 " = " value2
.B ...

.BI [ SectionName2 ]
.IB key1 " = " value1
.IB key2 " = " value2
.B ...
.fi
.RE

Each ODBC driver has its own section and can be referred to by the name of that
section in files such as odbc.ini. Within each section, unixODBC also recognises
the following configuration keys:

.IP \fBDescription
A text string briefly describing the driver.

.IP \fBDriver
A filesystem path to the actual driver library.

.IP \fBSetup
A filesystem path to the driver setup library.

.IP \fBFileUsage
The section named \fB[ODBC]\fR configures global options. Keys recognised in
the \fB[ODBC]\fR section include:

.RS
.IP \fBTrace
Enable ODBC driver trace output, which is written to the file path specified
by \fBTraceFile\fR.

Some ODBC drivers have their own trace control options. Unlike the \fBTrace\fR
option, these separate options are usually specified at the Data Source Name
(DSN) level.

\fBTrace\fR will be enabled if the corresponding value contains any case variant
of "1", "y", "yes" or "on".

.IP \fBTraceFile
Specifies the system path or path-pattern to which ODBC driver trace output will
be written. This option has no effect unless \fBTrace\fR is enabled. The default
file location for trace output is \fB/tmp/sql.log\fR.

\fIWARNING\fR: Setting \fBTraceFile\fR to a path writable by multiple users
might not work correctly, as only the first user will be able to create and open
the file.
.RE

.SH TEMPLATE FILES
Many ODBC drivers come with .ini file templates, which can be installed by using
the \fBodbcinst\fR utility.

Template files use the same format as odbcinst.ini.

.SH EXAMPLES
To install the unixODBC PostgreSQL driver, the following configuration can be
entered into odbcinst.ini:

.RS
.nf
[PostgreSQL]
Description = PostgreSQL driver for GNU/Linux
Driver      = /usr/lib/psqlodbcw.so
Setup       = /usr/lib/libodbcpsqlS.so
FileUsage   = 1
.fi
.RE

Driver paths can vary, depending on your operating system and whether
your distribution is multi-arch enabled. Some drivers also require \fBDriver64\fR
and \fBSetup64\fR entries.

The above section can be referenced in \fBodbc.ini\fR as follows:

.RS
.nf
Driver = PostgreSQL
.fi
.RE

The recommended way of adding the PostgreSQL driver to your system is by creating
a template file containing:

.RS
.nf
[PostgreSQL]
Description = PostgreSQL driver for GNU/Linux
Driver      = /usr/lib/psqlodbcw.so
Setup       = /usr/lib/libodbcpsqlS.so
.fi
.RE

and calling \fBodbcinst\fR as follows:

.RS
.BI "# odbcinst \-i \-d \-f " template.ini
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR unixODBC (7),
.BR odbcinst (1),
.BR odbc.ini (5)

"The \fIunixODBC\fB Administrator Manual (HTML)\fR"

.SH AUTHORS
The authors of unixODBC are Peter Harvey <\fIpharvey@codebydesign.com\fR> and
Nick Gorham <\fInick@lurcher.org\fR>.

For a full list of contributors, refer to the \fIAUTHORS\fR file.

.SH COPYRIGHT
unixODBC is licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License. For details
about the license, see the \fICOPYING\fR file.
