.TH unixODBC 7 "Thu 07 Jan 2021" "version 2.3.11" "unixODBC manual pages"

.SH NAME
unixODBC - An ODBC implementation for Unix

.SH DESCRIPTION
ODBC is an open specification providing application developers with a
predictable API with which to access data sources. Data sources include SQL
servers and any data source with an ODBC driver.

The unixODBC project goals are to develop and promote unixODBC as the
definitive standard for ODBC on non-Windows platforms.

The HTML-formatted "Administrator Manual" shipped with unixODBC provides
additional details on configuration and usage to supplement these man pages.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

.IP \fBODBCSYSINI
Sets the full path to the directory containing the unixODBC configuration
files. By default, this is '/etc'.

.IP \fBODBCINSTINI
Sets the name of the unixODBC driver configuration file. The file name is
relative to \fBODBCSYSINI\fR and is set by default to 'odbcinst.ini'.

.IP \fBODBCINI
Sets the full path to the system-wide unixODBC configuration file containing
Data Source Names (DSNs). By default, this is set to '/etc/odbc.ini'.

.IP \fBODBCINSTUI
Sets the library name for the UI. The final name that is searched for is
evaluated as "lib$ODBCINSTUI". By default, this variable is set to 'odbcinstQ4',
so the resulting library name is 'libodbcinstQ4'.

.IP \fBODBCSEARCH
Sets the configuration mode and determines where to look for configuration
files. This variable must be set to one of ODBC_SYSTEM_DSN, ODBC_USER_DSN or
ODBC_BOTH_DSN, which is the default value.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR unixODBC (7),
.BR isql (1),
.BR odbcinst (1),
.BR odbc.ini (5),
.BR odbcinst.ini (5)

"The \fIunixODBC\fB Administrator Manual (HTML)\fR"

.SH AUTHORS
The authors of unixODBC are Peter Harvey <\fIpharvey@codebydesign.com\fR> and
Nick Gorham <\fInick@lurcher.org\fR>.

For a full list of contributors, refer to the \fIAUTHORS\fR file.

.SH COPYRIGHT
unixODBC is licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License. For details
about the license, see the \fICOPYING\fR file.
